Instructions for configure PrivateLink for VCS (#4556)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/cloud/secure/vcs-privatelink.md

   -  **AWS Account ID:**	`arn:aws:iam::<account id>:root` (contact your dbt Labs account representative for appropriate account ID).

### Completing the connection

To complete the connection, dbt Labs must now provision a VPC Endpoint to connect to your VPC Endpoint Service. This requires you send the following information:
 
 - VPC Endpoint Service name:

 <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/vpc-endpoint-service-name.png" width="80%" title="Location of the VPC Endpoint Service name in the AWS console" />

 - **DNS configuration:** If the connection to the VCS service requires a custom domain and/or URL for TLS, a private hosted zone can be configured by the dbt Labs Infrastructure team in the dbt Cloud private network. For example:
    - **Private hosted zone:** `examplecorp.com`
    - **DNS record:** `github.examplecorp.com`

### Accepting the connection request

> When you has been notified that the resources are provisioned within the dbt Cloud environment, you must accept the endpoint connection (unless the VPC Endpoint Service is set to auto-accept connection requests). Requests can be accepted through the AWS console as seen below, or through the AWS CLI.

Reviewer: typo: `When you has` to `When you have`

> When you has been notified that the resources are provisioned within the dbt Cloud environment, you must accept the endpoint connection (unless the VPC Endpoint Service is set to auto-accept connection requests). Requests can be accepted through the AWS console as seen below, or through the AWS CLI.

Author: ```suggestion
When you have been notified that the resources are provisioned within the dbt Cloud environment, you must accept the endpoint connection (unless the VPC Endpoint Service is set to auto-accept connection requests). Requests can be accepted through the AWS console, as seen below, or through the AWS CLI.
```

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/accept-request.png" width="80%" title="Accept the connection request" />

> Once the endpoint connection request is accepted, the PrivateLink endpoint is ready to use in dbt Cloud.

Reviewer: I think we'll need another section here that details what to do in dbt Cloud once the previous steps have been completed. This would be similar to the `Create Connection in dbt Cloud` sections in the pages for PrivateLink in Data Warehouses. The user will be able to use radio buttons to select "Private" and then be able to select the private endpoint from a dropdown. This is available in the Gitlab App Integration page, as well as in the form when selecting git over ssh.

---
title: "Configuring PrivateLink for self-hosted cloud version control systems (VCS)"
id: vcs-privatelink
description: "Setting up a PrivateLink connection between dbt Cloud and an organization’s cloud hosted git server"
sidebar_label: "PrivateLink for VCS"
---

import SetUpPages from '/snippets/_available-tiers-privatelink.md';

<SetUpPages features={'/snippets/_available-tiers-privatelink.md'}/>

> AWS PrivateLink provides private connectivity from dbt Cloud to your self-hosted cloud version control system (VCS) service by routing requests through your virtual private cloud (VPC). This type of connection does not require you to publicly expose an endpoint to your VCS repositories or for requests to the service to traverse the public internet, ensuring the most secure connection possible. AWS recommends PrivateLink connectivity as part of it's [Well-Architected Framework](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/wellarchitected/latest/framework/welcome.html) and details this particular pattern in the **Shared Services** section of the [AWS PrivateLink whitepaper](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/pdfs/whitepapers/latest/aws-privatelink/aws-privatelink.pdf).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
AWS PrivateLink provides private connectivity from dbt Cloud to your self-hosted cloud version control system (VCS) service by routing requests through your virtual private cloud (VPC). This type of connection does not require you to publicly expose an endpoint to your VCS repositories or for requests to the service to traverse the public internet, ensuring the most secure connection possible. AWS recommends PrivateLink connectivity as part of its [Well-Architected Framework](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/wellarchitected/latest/framework/welcome.html) and details this particular pattern in the **Shared Services** section of the [AWS PrivateLink whitepaper](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/pdfs/whitepapers/latest/aws-privatelink/aws-privatelink.pdf).
```

> This document will cover at a high level the resources necessary to implement this solution. Cloud environments and provisioning processes vary greatly, so information from this guide may need to be adapted to fit your requirements.

Reviewer 2: I suggest being a little more specific. I also suggest removing "this document" or "this guide" in favor of just calling them instructions. It might get confusing because it might sometimes be a guide or doc (pdf) or web page but they are always instructions.

```suggestion
The following instructions provide the resources necessary to implement PrivateLink for self-hosted VCS. Because cloud environments and provisioning processes vary greatly, you might need to adapt these instructions to fit your requirements.
```

Author: We use `this guide` a lot (`this document` less frequently but still in a few places). Should we change this everywhere and add it to our style guide?

Reviewer 2: @matthewshaver Good call on thinking about this holistically.  

I don't have super strong feelings about "this document"  if you hate "these instructions" (which feels a little formal now that I read it) and want to ignore it. Maybe the answer is zeroing on one thing to call it when it's a page in the docs because, to your point, I do see a lot of "this guide" when it's not technically a guide.

I had always been taught not to be "self referential" in docs. As in _say the thing_ and don't _call it a thing that will say the thing_.

I think "this guide" is appropriate in a guide that lives under`/guides` and could get confusing elsewhere.

Author: ```suggestion
You will learn, at a high level, the resources necessary to implement this solution. Cloud environments and provisioning processes vary greatly, so information from this guide may need to be adapted to fit your requirements.
```

> ## PrivateLink connection

Reviewer 2: Maybe this can be "overview" or "about" to help those searching.
```suggestion
## About the PrivateLink connection
```

Author: ```suggestion
## PrivateLink connection overview
```

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/privatelink-vcs-architecture.png" width="80%" title="High level overview of the dbt Cloud and AWS PrivateLink for VCS architecture" />

> ### Solution resources

Reviewer 2: It might be helpful to make this title more descriptive. Maybe something like:
```suggestion
### Creating the Interface VPC PrivateLink connection
```

Author: I hesitated to use this language originally because this isn't creating the connection. We do that, not them, they gather the resources and hand them to our team. How about
```suggestion
### Required resources for creating a connection
```

Reviewer 2: I like that!

> Creating an Interface VPC PrivateLink connection requires creating multiple AWS resources in the account containing the self-hosted VCS instance. You are responsible for provisioning and maintaining the resources deployed within your AWS account(s) and private network. Once provisioned, connection information and permissions are shared with dbt Labs to complete the connection, allowing for direct VPC to VPC private connectivity. 

Reviewer 2: I tried to make this less wordy but not sure I did much:
```suggestion
Creating an Interface VPC PrivateLink connection requires creating multiple AWS resources in your AWS account(s) and private network containing the self-hosted VCS instance. You are responsible for provisioning and maintaining these resources. Once provisioned, connection information and permissions are shared with dbt Labs to complete the connection, allowing for direct VPC to VPC private connectivity. 
```

> Note: This approach is distinct from and does not require you to implement VPC peering between your AWS account(s) and dbt Cloud.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:::tip Tip
You do not need to implement VPC peering between your AWS account(s) and dbt Cloud.
:::
```

Author: I'm not really sure this merits a tip call out. How about we just make it a sentence instead?
```suggestion
This approach is distinct from and does not require you to implement VPC peering between your AWS account(s) and dbt Cloud.
```

Reviewer 2: Looks good!

> The following resources are necessary to create a PrivateLink connection, allowing the dbt Cloud application to connect to your self-hosted cloud VCS. These resources can be created via the AWS Console, AWS CLI, or Infrastructure-as-Code such as [Terraform](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs) or [AWS CloudFormation](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You need these resource to create a PrivateLink connection, which allows the dbt Cloud application to connect to your self-hosted cloud VCS. These resources can be created via the AWS Console, AWS CLI, or Infrastructure-as-Code such as [Terraform](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/aws/latest/docs) or [AWS CloudFormation](https://aws.amazon.com/cloudformation/).
```

To complete the connection, dbt Labs must now provision a VPC Endpoint to connect to your VPC Endpoint Service. This requires you send the following information:
 
 - VPC Endpoint Service name:

 <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/vpc-endpoint-service-name.png" width="80%" title="Location of the VPC Endpoint Service name in the AWS console" />

 - **DNS configuration:** If the connection to the VCS service requires a custom domain and/or URL for TLS, a private hosted zone can be configured by the dbt Labs Infrastructure team in the dbt Cloud private network. For example:
    - **Private hosted zone:** `examplecorp.com`
    - **DNS record:** `github.examplecorp.com`

### Accepting the connection request

When you have been notified that the resources are provisioned within the dbt Cloud environment, you must accept the endpoint connection (unless the VPC Endpoint Service is set to auto-accept connection requests). Requests can be accepted through the AWS console, as seen below, or through the AWS CLI.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/accept-request.png" width="80%" title="Accept the connection request" />

> Once the endpoint connection request is accepted, the PrivateLink endpoint is ready to use in dbt Cloud.

Reviewer 2: making the sentence a tiny bit more active:
```suggestion
Once you accept the endpoint connection request, you can use the PrivateLink endpoint in dbt Cloud.
```

## Configure in dbt Cloud

> Once the dbt Labs team confirms that the PrivateLink integration is complete, you can select it as part of a new or existing git configuration. Select **PrivateLink Endpoint** as the connection type, and your configured integrations will appear in the dropdown menu. This is a manual process; the existing connections remain configured as they were until this step is complete.  

Reviewer 2: Is a person at dbt really confirming this? Or do you mean  "once dbt confirms...?"
This feels like it's missing steps so I guessed but you might want to verify.
```suggestion
Once dbt confirms that the PrivateLink integration is complete, you can use it in a new or existing git configuration. 
1. Select **PrivateLink Endpoint** as the connection type, and your configured integrations will appear in the dropdown menu. 
2. Select the configured endpoint from the drop down list.
3. Click **Save**.
```

> Once the dbt Labs team confirms that the PrivateLink integration is complete, you can select it as part of a new or existing git configuration. Select **PrivateLink Endpoint** as the connection type, and your configured integrations will appear in the dropdown menu. This is a manual process; the existing connections remain configured as they were until this step is complete.  

Reviewer 2: Maybe as a 1st step, we can link them to how to set up their git integration? No need to repeat those steps but some might be confused.

> <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/vcs-setup-new.png" width="80%" title="Configuring a new git integration" />

Reviewer 2: It's unclear to me what I should pay attention to in these screens as they kind of bleed together. Perhap they should be side by side and have a more descriptive title?

Author: The whole screenshot is important - is there something, in particular, causing confusion? They're selecting the proper resources for a new and existing integration

Reviewer 2: @matthewshaver I think the lack of clear steps confused me so maybe it's better now. I also wish the screen shot title preceded the screen shots because I believe that would also help you glance over them to see the purpose of each. The "Configuring a new git integration" title kind of gets lost in the middle and it wasn't clear whether it was a title within the screen shot.

Author: That's something for me to look into!

    - **Private hosted zone:** `examplecorp.com`
    - **DNS record:** `github.examplecorp.com`

### Accepting the connection request

When you have been notified that the resources are provisioned within the dbt Cloud environment, you must accept the endpoint connection (unless the VPC Endpoint Service is set to auto-accept connection requests). Requests can be accepted through the AWS console, as seen below, or through the AWS CLI.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/accept-request.png" width="80%" title="Accept the connection request" />

Once you accept the endpoint connection request, you can use the PrivateLink endpoint in dbt Cloud.

## Configure in dbt Cloud

Once dbt confirms that the PrivateLink integration is complete, you can use it in a new or existing git configuration. 
1. Select **PrivateLink Endpoint** as the connection type, and your configured integrations will appear in the dropdown menu. 
2. Select the configured endpoint from the drop down list.
3. Click **Save**.

> <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/vcs-setup-new.png" width="80%" title="Configuring a new git integration" />

Author: ```suggestion
<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/vcs-setup-new.png" width="80%" title="Configuring a new git integration with PrivateLink" />
```

> <Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/vcs-setup-existing.png" width="80%" title="Editing an existing git integration" />

Author: ```suggestion
<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/cloud-configuring-dbt-cloud/vcs-setup-existing.png" width="80%" title="Editing an existing git integration with PrivateLink" />
```
